hi everyone my name is Anu and in this
video I want to talk about how did I
clear my system design interviews at
Bloomberg atashian Etc so in this video
I'm going to share all of the important
system design topics Concepts I'm also
going to share the study plan with you
and on top of it I'm going to share the
free resources that I use so a little
bit about me I'm currently working as a
software engineer at Google and prior to
that I have cleared a lot of interviews
and to be honest even fresher Ro some
companies require system design even for
fresher roles so I prepared all of this
in a short span of 8 weeks and there are
some important Concepts and topics that
you should know as well so in this video
I'm going to share what are the
important topics Concepts and I will
also talk about the free resources that
I have used and if you like this video I
would also request you to please follow
like share with your friends and if you
don't want to share with your friends
you can also share it with just your
family and it would mean a lot to me and
motivate me to keep continuing making
videos so without further Ado now let's
Dive Right
In so before starting with system design
I would recommend that you go ahead and
learn about data structures algorithms
as well they have some basic algorithms
and these are actually the foundation of
computer science so if you directly go
ahead and jump to system design
interview topics or start learning
system design your knowledge won't be
that thorough so you should know a
little bit about the basic data
structures the basic algorithms and you
should know what all of these do because
this will help speed up your learning
when you are actually going and learning
about system design as well so just do a
brief overview of what is graphs what
are trees learn a bit about heaps cues
and that will help you a lot so I would
say that the first few moments you
should keep for learning about computer
architecture computer networks operating
systems and data structures and
algorithms so now once you're done with
that you can go ahead to system
design so talking about what are some
important topics that you can learn for
system design I would say the first
important topic is scalability so
scalability is all about how do you
scale your system how do you vertically
scale your system how do you
horizontally scale your system and that
is a very important topic that you
should know a lot about so scalability
is the first topic that you should know
about and I would say along with
scalability you should also know about
availability reliability so these are
some nonfunctional requirements of your
system that you should know about so
without further Ado let's just move on
to the next topic that you should be
learning about so along with
skillability you need to know the second
important topic that you need to know
about is availability so how do you make
sure that your web website or your
whatever application you have is working
99.99% of the time so I know that sounds
like a lot but look at any other real
life system around you you will see that
it's very rare that these websites they
not able to serve traffic because in
most of the cases you see that they are
always available it will never happen
that you probably go to Facebook and
you're not able to search something and
even if that happens it's probably in
the news so availability is very
important you need to know about how are
you going to make your system available
so availability is again important and
while we are at it I would say that you
should also know about cap theorem so
cap theorem is also a very important
topic in system design and you should
know about this as well so when you are
discussing the tradeoff of your system
you can keep cap theorem as a Baseline
and let's say your interviewer asks you
to make it even more make your system
even more robust then you can in
sometimes say that okay cap theorem has
this limitation and these are the after
these constraints I cannot move forward
because of the cap theorem so if you're
aware of this it will also show it to
your interviewer that you have done your
homework you are very good at the
theories and all of the important
theorems which are in system design so I
would say learn about cap theorem as
well the next thing that you should know
about is back of the envelop
calculations so back of the envelope
calculations is all about how do you
express kilobytes megabytes gigabytes in
terms of 10 to the powers or in terms of
two poers so you should be able to
calculate quickly right so doing quick
math is very important in system design
so I would say learn about back of the
envelope calculations this is very
important when you are let's say
calculating the QPS of your system or
you're talking about throughput and you
need to decide like what kind of data
base you need to take or what how many
reads and wrs are going to be happening
for your particular application so it's
very important that you know back of the
envelope calculations so with that I
come to my second point that you should
know about back of the envelope
calculations the third thing that you
should know about is domain name system
so domain name system is very important
because how do you find your server so
with that I come to my third topic which
is going to be domain name system so
let's say you have horizontally scaled
your system but how do you know which
server your application is supposed to
talk to how do you look up the IP
address of that system and if you know a
bit about IP addresses you'll know that
they are very complated you have some uh
you have few dots like
123. do something and that's not really
a human readable name as well so when I
know that I need to search something on
Google I directly go to google.com I
don't actually remember the IP address
that I need to hit to so that is where
domain name system comes so domain name
system is all about mapping the IP
address to a human or user readable name
so you should know about how you're
going to use DNS in your system as well
so that is the third most important
topic that you should be learning about
which is domain name system the fourth
important topic that you should know
about is load balancers so let's say
that you have horizontally scaled your
system so now for your application you
have about four servers which are
running but for each of these four
servers let's say a user request comes
how do you know which server you're
going to hit so that is where a load
balancer comes in load balancer makes
sure that the load is equally
distributed across each of your four
servers so let's say that if any request
comes each of those four servers are
going to receive an equal amount of
request and one of the servers is not
going to go down because it's going to
be load balance across everything and
even if one server does go down your
load balancer will know how to smartly
distribute the request across the three
of the remaining servers so you should
know about load balancers and how you're
going to use that in your system as well
the fourth and I think we at fifth now
so the fifth most important topic that
you should know about is databases so
databases is very important because you
should know about what are some
different type of databases that you can
use whether you want to use a relational
database or you want to use a mySQL
database or a nosql database and what
are some other database types so either
you want to use reddis and there are a
lot of other database types as well so
you should know about what are some
different types you need to know about
database partitioning as well in this
you are also going to learn about how do
you distribute the keys how do you
actually Shard your database so
databases is a very very vast topic but
it's also very important and in any
system let's say you have like a 45
minute or 1 hour system design interview
and this goes even for engineering
manager roles that you'll be asked about
system design in that as well you will
have to discuss a lot about databases so
it's very important that you are well
through with the different database type
how do you do database partitioning how
do you do database Shing so big sure
that you are learning about databases a
lot the next important topic that you
should know about is key value store so
key value store is very important for
scalability for versioning and I would
say that this is also very important
topic that you should go through the
next important topic is content delivery
Network so content delivery network is
all about caching so again let's go back
to our example of horizontally scaling a
system so now that I have horizontally
scaled my system I know that those four
servers are going to be serving the user
request but do I want them to know about
the users every information right that
is going to be a bit inefficient right
instead I would want consistency across
all of these data all of these servers
so I want to make sure that every time
that I'm querying some information which
is related to the user I should get the
same information it doesn't matter if I
make a query to server one or server two
I should get the same data every time
and how am I going to make sure that
happens happens so that is where CDN
comes in so with CDN what happens is
that you make your server stateless now
again this is going to be a was topic if
I start talking about stateless and
stateful but just to give you a brief
overview stateful is when you are
storing the data as well in your let's
say server stateless is when you have
separated your data and your server
functionality right so that is stateless
because it doesn't store the user's
current state right so you want to make
sure that your architecture is St list
and how do you make sure that happens
that is where CDN comes in so CDN is
content delivery Network and it's all
about caching strategies and how do you
actually use a different let's say a
data store to hold all of your users
data so CDN is very important that you
should know if you are preparing for a
system design interview so this other
important topic that you should know if
you're preparing for system design is
monitoring so how do you monitor client
side errors how do you monitor server
side errors how do you monit monor what
are some error rates error requests so
this is very important even in real life
software engineering you should know
about what is the maximum limit of
errors and how do you make sure that as
soon as some error comes in if you are
the system architect you should be the
first one that is notified so this is
all about monitoring so you should also
know a bit about monitoring as the other
important topic is distributed messaging
que the Distributing messaging queue is
all about even within a simple
application you have tons of things that
is going on you have a ton of messages
which is going on in let's say some
something as simple as opening Netflix
right or let's say something as simple
as spinning up Google prob so even these
have a lot of details a lot of nuances
so how do you make sure that all of
these messages do not slow down the
system in any way and that is where
distributed messaging queue comes in and
I would suggest that while you are at
distributed messaging queue you can also
start learning a bit about kafa as well
but only do that if you have a lot of
time but just if you Lear able to learn
about ASA messaging cues as well along
with distributed messaging cues you'll
be able to nail your system design
interviews so the other important topic
that you should know about is rate
limiter so all of these big websites
that you see like Google Netflix or
let's say Amazon they all have rate
limiting enabled so what rate limiting
does is that let's say there's some
fraud user or a malicious user how do
you make sure don't mess up with your
system and that is where rate limiting
comes in so rate limiting makes sure
that if there is a m user that is let's
say is hitting like 10,000 requests per
second which is absolutely going to
crash your server you want to make sure
that you limit those instances that is
why rate limiting comes in because rate
limiting is going to take care of all of
that for your server so those were some
important topics that you can learn if
you are preparing for a system design
interview now let's move on to the most
important topic which is what are the
resources that you use so the very first
resource that I would recommend
personally is system Sy design primer so
system design primer is like your
OneStop go-to destination where you can
learn about everything which is related
to system design so at system design
primer you will be able to see what are
some study plans that you can follow and
there are lot of resources and most of
the resources are going to be so system
design primer is the First Resource that
I would suggest the second resource that
I would suggest is system design by Alex
zo I think I'm pronouncing the name
right but even if I'm not that is a very
good book that you should be following
and it doesn't have a lot of theory
about these Concepts but then again
system design primer is something that
you can use if you want to learn a lot
more in detail about the theory let me
know in the comments if you would like
me to make a playlist on system design I
will be happy to share that as well but
I just want to gauge interest of how
many people will actually be interested
so let me know in the comments if you
want that as well comment system design
and I will make sure that I upload the
playlist for system designers and I'm
going to upload it in a way that is very
relatable for you because I started
Learning System design as a noob as a
dummy so I'm going to be sharing with
you everything in a very basic simple
way so just write it in the comments if
you would like me to start a series on
that as well so coming back to the topic
the second thing that you can do is have
a look at system design book by Alex zoo
and the third very Gold Mine of a
resource that I would suggest is going
through David Milan Howard lecture this
is pure gold so these videos are
actually like at the time of making this
video for me it's like 12 13 years old
videos and they're still very relevant
in most of the case right so his talk on
scalability is something that if you're
able to go through that 1 hour 45
minutes of interview of uh YouTube video
then you will be able to solve anything
that is related to scalability you will
be able to answer anything which is
related to scalability because that's
how good that lecture is so go through
that go through David Milan's uh
lectures on scalability as well the
fourth thing that I would suggest is
there is again a book which is designed
data intensive application I don't
remember the name of the author but it's
a very good book and I would suggest
that I personally learned a lot from
that book as well and I haven't
completed it totally because it's very
like I said data intensive it's actually
very intensive but it's very good you
should read about that and I would say
that do that only if you have a lot of
time if you don't have a lot of time you
you are short on your timeline that you
have for prepare for interviews you can
probably leave out this so these were
the four resources that you can follow
the don't cost anything they don't cost
they're completely free right and I have
learned from them and I think you can
learn too so I hope that gives you a lot
of insights about the free resources
that you can use to learn about system
design so now till now we have talked
about the concepts we have talked about
what are the resources you can use to
learn about system design now let's talk
about the study plan so the study plan
is that I'm going to prepare a 8we plan
for you to learn about system design so
the first two weeks is going to be all
about about brushing up the basics now
brushing up the basics means that you
should go ahead and read a bit about
data structures algorithm you should
know about operating systems you should
also know a bit about computer
architecture and in general you should
know about how do requests actually work
so life of a request is something that
what happens as soon as you type
something on your computer How does it
go through the web server web through
the client side How does it go to the
server and how does the request actually
come back to you so this is a complete
uh life cycle of a request and that is
something that you should know about so
I would say these two weeks spend some
time on revising your computer science
basic now once those two weeks are done
now you have about six weeks of Time how
do you distribute that six weeks of time
in that six weeks what you can do is
that you can leave first 3 weeks to
learn only about the system design
Theory Concepts that I mentioned earlier
so this time just focus on reading blogs
and reading uh looking up YouTube videos
or going through certain books that I've
already mentioned so these three weeks
should be reserved for just learning and
once you are done with learning a lot
about this don't worry memorizing
everything that is not something that
you should be doing you will be able to
learn all of it thoroughly when you
actually start practicing solving system
design interview questions so with that
we come to the next part which is how do
you spend the last remaining 3 weeks so
in the last remaining 3 weeks you should
spend two weeks for solving system
design interview questions and how
you're going to find those is that you
can find it anywhere on many of the
important sites like you can find it on
system design primer as well on GitHub
and there are some other sites as well
even on lead Cod you can start solving
system design interview questions and
there are some free sites as well where
you can learn system design practice
system design I would say that start
doing that start drawing up all of the
architecture with diagrams start drawing
how you're going to how a request is
going to come how load balancer is going
to handle where that request goes to so
start doing all of that practically
solving each question and if you get
stuck at something if you're not able to
solve go ahead and revise that topic as
well so these two weeks should be
reserved only for solving system design
interview questions and the last one
week you are going to leave that for
giving mock interviews and you're also
going to leave that for just practicing
with anyone that you're able to find so
maybe you have a friend with whom you
want to solve these questions so you can
find them B them and do a interview with
them so in this way it's going to really
help you in preparing how you're
actually going to talk in an interview
you'll start with first the back of the
envelope calculations first you're just
going to draw a simple server simple
system which just takes the request and
returns a response and then you're
slowely going to keep optimizing it and
making it even more complex so this is
some way that you should know about how
you're actually going to answer these
questions in a real life interview so
make sure that you have that last one
week only for practicing and with that
that is how you can divide your own 8
weeks of preparation for system design
interview so that's it for the video
hope you liked it and if you did please
give it a thumbs up and subscribe and
share it with any friends or family that
you would like and let me know in the
comments if these resources were helpful
and until then I will see you in the
next one bye